.Dd September 16, 2021
.Dt MVLS 8 SMM
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME
.Nm mvls
.Nd Dump internal state of Marvell LinkStreet Ethernet switches
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Cm port | Cm atu | Cm vtu | Cm pvt Op Ar DEV
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Without arguments,
.Nm
will dump the
.Cm vtu , Cm atu , and Cm port
tables.
.Bl -tag -width 0
.It Cm port
List basic information about all ports on all switches on the system.
.It Cm atu
Dump all entries in the Address Translation Units (ATUs) of all
devices on the system.
.Qd ATU
is a Marvell LinkStreet specific name for a Forwarding Database (FDB).
.It Cm vtu
Dump all entries in the VLAN Translation Units (VTUs) of all devices
on the system. Each port will be in one of four states:
.Bl -tag
.It Cm .
Not a member of the VLAN
.It Cm u
Member of the VLAN, traffic egresses untagged.
.It Cm t
Member of the VLAN, traffic egresses tagged.
.It Cm =
Member of the VLAN, traffic egresses unmodified.
.El
.It Cm pvt Op Ar DEV
Without
.Ar DEV ,
show a condensed view of the Port based VLAN Tables (PVTs) of all
devices on the system. The output is an N \(mu N matrix, where N is
the number of ports on the system. Each element will contain one of
four possible values:
.Bl -tag
.It Cm .
No communication is allowed between the ports at the corresponding row
and column.
.It Cm x
Bidirectional communication is allowed between the ports at the
corresponding row and column.
.It Cm <
Only unidirectional communication from the column port to the row port
is allowed.
.It Cm ^
Only unidirectional communication from the row port to the column port
is allowed.
.El
.Pp
Supplying
.Ar DEV
will dump the full PVT table for that device. This is useful to
inspect entries that do not correspond to any physical device,
i.e. those used by the mv88e6xxx driver to isolate Linux bridges.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr devlink 8
.Xr mdio 8
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
acquires its data from the devlink interface of the
.Nm mv88e6xxx
driver. In contrast to
.Xr devlink 8 ,
it does not concern itself with maintaining multiple snapshots of
register regions and whatnot \(en it is indended to be used
interactively during development and debugging.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Tobias Waldekranz Aq Mt tobias@waldekranz.com
